Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programming languages are the tools that we use to write instructions for computers to follow.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment
used for developing Java applications and applets.
It includes the:
JRE (Java Runtime Environment) or JRE:
is a software layer that runs on top of a computer’s operating system software and provides the class
libraries and other resources that a specific Java program needs to run.
an interpreter/loader (java):
Java interpreter is a computer program (system software)
that implements the JVM(java virtual machine). It is responsible for reading and executing the program.
A Java compiler:
is a program that takes the text
file work of a developer and compiles it into a platform-independent Java file.
Java compilers include the Java Programming Language Compiler (javac),
the GNU Compiler for Java (GCJ), the Eclipse Compiler for Java (ECJ) .
n archiver (jar):
a documentation generator (javadoc) and
other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
A. IDE(integrated development environment) is a software for buildings applications that
   combines combines developer tools into a single GUI(graphical users interface).

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, MyEclipse, intellij, BlueJ, NetBeans, JDeveloper.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when
we type source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code (0’s and 1’s).
There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:
   Editing the program
   Compiling the source code
   Executing the byte code
 First you will start with typing the program in a text-editor (ex: notepad, notepad++, wordpad, textedit etc).
 Second step is compilation. The name of the Java compiler is javac.
 Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM).

what is class?
A. Class is a blueprint for creating objects.

What is object?
A.A java object is a member of a java class, also called an instance.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.Main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
A.Main method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The object class is the superclass of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path variable is used to set the path for all java software tools and
  classpath variable is used to set the path for java class.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface support multiple inheritance but abstract doesn't support multiple inheritance.
   And interface has only static and final variables but abstract has static, non-static,
   and final, non-final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No you can't make an object from an Interface and Abstract class.
   But you can instantiate an anonymous class that implements/extends the interface or
   abstract class without defining a class object.

what is Access Specifier?
A. An access specifier is a defining code element that can determine which elements of a program
   are allowed to access a specific variable or other piece of data.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. A.OOP(Object-oriented programming)is a computer programming model that
   organizes software design around data, or objects, rather than functions and logic.
   They are: abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
   Abstraction: is a process of exposing all the necessary details and hiding the rest.
   Encapsulation: is a mechanism of wrapping the data (variables) and code acting on the data.
   Inheritance: is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent object.
   Polymorphism:  is the ability of an object to take many forms.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages.
   The java. lang package is always imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API(Application Programming Interface) is a software intermediary that
   allows two applications to talk to each other.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. Java doesn't support multiple inheritance because every class is a child of Object class.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. .Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
   if their argument lists are different.
   Overloading happens when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. The Exception Handling in Java is one of the powerful mechanism to handle the
runtime errors so that the normal flow of the application can be maintained.
 Exception is an abnormal condition.
In Java, an exception is an event that disrupts the normal
 flow of the program. It is an object which is thrown at runtime.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final is the keyword and access modifier which is used to apply restrictions on a class, method or variable.
   Final keyword in java is used to put restrictions on variables to be modified, class to be extended
   and a method to be overridden in java applications.
What is final, finally and finalize?
A. final is the keyword and access modifier which is used to apply restrictions on a class, method or variable.
   finally is the block in Java Exception Handling to execute the important code whether
   the exception occurs or not.
   finalize is the method in Java which is used to perform clean up processing just before
  object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
Constructor is a block of code that initializes the newly created object.
A constructor initializes an object when it is created. It has the same name as its class
and is syntactically similar to a method. However, constructors have no explicit return type.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. A class can have any number of constructors. Access modifiers can be used in
constructor declaration to control its access i.e which other class can call the constructor.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. A constructor with no parameters is called a default constructor. A default constructor has every
instance of the class to be initialized to the same values.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. "this" keyword in Java is a reference variables that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
 Usage of Java super Keyword
 super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
 super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
 super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes It is. It means that you won’t require a different
JVM for every different platform.

What version of java are you using?
 Version 8, update 301

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR stands for Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
 JDK: The JDK is an abbreviation for Java Development Kit.
JVM: The JVM is an abbreviation for Java Virtual Machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE :The JRE is an abbreviation for Java Runtime Environment.
   JVM: The JVM is an abbreviation for Java Virtual Machine.
   ent describes the requirement of JVM implementation.
What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code
   while the run time is the time at which the executable code is started running.

What is heap?
A. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease
 in size while the application runs.

How java manage it's memory?
A. Java does memory management automatically.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is basically an object that represents
sequence of char values. An array of characters works same as Java string
StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe. It means two threads can't
call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously.
StringBuilder is non-synchronized i.e. not thread safe. It means two
threads can call the methods of StringBuilder simultaneously.

What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton is a design pattern that ensures that a class can only have one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. .Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
   Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory

when to use transient variable in java?
A. The transient modifier can be used where there are data members
derived from the other data members within the same instance of the class.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop check condition before iteration of the loop. On the other hand,
   the do-while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
A. An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants.

What is Iterator?
A. An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. An Integer object will take more memory an Integer is the an object and it store meta data
overhead about the object and int is primitive type so its takes less space.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency,
 caching, and class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor
with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. A serial collector is a default copying collector
   which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
   while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just-In-Time (JIT).

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. The Java heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by
applications running on the JVM.Java Garbage Collection is the process by which
Java programs perform automatic memory management.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Java Heap Space is used throughout the application, but Stack is only used
for the method — or methods — currently running.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at run-time.
   It is useful because it allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself,
   and manipulate internal properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program
   for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple
threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
A. Java frameworks are specific to the Java programming language.
    It's a Java platform for developing software applications and Java programs.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. They are:
   1. Selenium
   2. Serenity
   3. JUnit
   4. TestingNG
   5. Cucumber
   6. JBehave
   7. Mockito

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. JUnit is a unit testing framework for Java programming language.
   TestNG is built over JUnit and NUnit and provides more features for testing an application.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. A relationships between products or tasks.

what is dependency injection in java?
 Dependency injection(DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding uses Type information for binding
   while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.








