Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. In order to locate and retrieve  data it is required to have data in a structured form. Structured form of data makes
   retrieval and manipulation easy.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. Following operations can be performed on the data structures:
   Traversing
   Searching
   Inserting
   Deleting
   Sorting

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. Data structures are used in any program or software.
   They are used in the areas of
   Compiler Design
   Operating System
   DBMS
   Graphics
   Simulation
   Numerical Analysis
   Artificial Intelligence

what is an Array?
A. Array is a collection of similar type of elements that have contiguous memory location.
In Java, array is an object the contains elements of similar data type.
Array is index based, first element of the array is stored at 0 (zero) index.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
We cannot change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed.
We cannot store primitives in ArrayList, it can only store objects.
But array can contain both primitives and objects in Java.

what is LinkedList?
A. Linked List can be defined as collection of objects called nodes that are randomly stored in the memory.
Each node consists of two fields, i.e., data and link.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.  Array works with a static memory.
Here static memory means that the memory size is fixed and cannot be changed at the run time.
    The Linked list works with dynamic memory.
Here, dynamic memory means that the memory size can be changed at the run time according to our requirements.

what is queue?
A. 1. A queue can be defined as an ordered list which enables insert operations to be performed at one end called REAR and delete operations to be performed at another end called FRONT.

   2. Queue is referred to be as First In First Out list.

   3. For example, people waiting in line for a rail ticket form a queue.

what is stack?
A. A stack is a linear list data structure having a sequential collection of elements
in which elements are added on the top of the stack like piles of books, etc.
The new item can be added, or existing item can be removed only from the top of the stack.
Stack is considered as a dynamic data structure because the size of the stack can be changed at the run time.
The two operations can be performed on the stack, i.e., push and pop.
Here, push operation means that a new item is inserted into the stack,
whereas the pop operation means that the existing item is removed from the stack.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO (First in First Out)
LIFO (Last In First Out)

what is the order of complexity?
A.For input is of size N, we can say that the algorithm will finish at
 O(1), O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A. Sequential search is the best way to find a value in an unsorted array.
1 But,if the array is sorted in increasing order by value, then we can use a process called binary search.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A. The worst case complexity is O (n/2) (equivalent to O (n)) when element
 is in the middle or not present in the array.

what is tree in data structure?
A. A tree data structure is defined as a collection of objects or entities known as nodes
 that are linked together to represent or simulate hierarchy.

what is graph in data structure?
A. HashMap is non synchronized. It is not-thread safe and can't be shared
between many threads without proper synchronization code.
HashMap is a new class introduced in JDK 1.2.


A. Hashtable is synchronized. It is thread-safe and can be shared with many threads.
   Hashtable is a legacy class.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas
A. The major data structures used are as follows:
   · RDBMS – Array (i.e. Array of structures)
   · Network data model – Graph
   · Hierarchical data model – Trees

How HashMap works in java?
A.  it works based on the hashing principle.
Hashing is the mechanism of assigning the unique code to a variable or attribute
using some algorithm to enable easy retrieval.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A. The ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs whenever we are trying to access any item of
an array at an index which is not present in the array.
In other words, the index may be negative or exceed the size of an array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A. How to Copy One Array to Another in Java
   Manually
   Arrays.copyOf()
   System.arraycopy()
   Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A. An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
A linked list is a collection of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts,
 i.e., data and address.

What is DFS and BFS?
A. DFS stands for Depth First Search.
BFS stands for Breadth First Search. It is also known as level order traversal.

What is Recursion?
A. Recursion in java is a process in which a method calls itself continuously.
A method in java that calls itself is called recursive method.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A. In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a
linear order where each and every elements are attached to its previous and next adjacent.
In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically manner.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A. It represents the upper bound of the runtime of an algorithm.
Big O Notation's role is to calculate the longest time an algorithm can take for its execution,
i.e., it is used for calculating the worst-case time complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A. ALGORITHM	    TIME COMPLEXITY	           TIME COMPLEXITY	     TIME COMPLEXITY
   -	            Best	                    Average	                Worst
   Selection Sort	Ω (n^2)	                    θ (n^2)	                O (n^2)
   Bubble Sort	    Ω (n)	                    θ (n^2)	                O (n^2)
   Insertion Sort	Ω (n)	                    θ (n^2)	                O (n^2)

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
A. a)In terms of Accessing element.
     b)In terms of Inserting element.
     c)In terms of Searching element.
     d)In terms of Removing element.


